Welcome back to our library studio.
I'm your host, Craig Winn.
This is the EOA blog.
We have been doing an ongoing series.
I think this is episode thirty one,
if I'm not mistaken, of this program.
It is October thirtieth.
It's a Thursday here in the fall of
twenty twenty five.
We're just eight years
now away from Yahowah and Dowd's return in
twenty thirty three and only about seven
months away from the beginning of the time
of Israel's troubles.
And we are doing a series where we're
examining what can be learned about the
great betrayer of Israel in the world.
There is a enormous amount of prophecy
regarding an individual that will arise in
the last days.
who will betray Israel.
He is best noted both in Daniel nine
and also in Isaiah, I'm, seventeen.
for narrowing Israel at the waist and
confirming a treaty with many that makes
God's people vulnerable.
It is addressing the creation of a
Pakistani state,
the so-called two-state solution that will
be imposed on Israel.
And according to Yasha'yah Isaiah,
this occurs during...
or prior to, right around, if you will,
the fulfillment of Shabuwah,
seven years before the return of Yahowah
and Dowd at the commencement of the time
of Israel's troubles.
And therefore, it will occur,
there will be a Fakistanian state
acknowledged and set prior to the
twenty-second of May, twenty-twenty-six.
And
In the eighteenth chapter of Yasha'yah,
the Prophet uses some seventy different
adjectives to describe the perpetrator,
describing him individually and his
nation,
and all of those signs point to a
single individual and single country,
Donald Trump and the United States of
America.
And these terms are not the least bit
ubiquitous in the sense of applying to
many different people.
They're very specific to the nature of the
United States,
how it operates in the world,
the size of its military,
particularly its drones and helicopters
and the like,
and its projection of its power and
strength.
through its navy and its aircraft battle
groups,
and the fact that it menaces the world,
projecting its influence all over the
world.
And it Dowds so in a way that
is egotistical and duplicitous,
exceedingly manipulative and controlling.
And the prophet indicates that this
individual has enormous influence over
Israel.
And because of Netanyahu's failed
plans and Gaza,
Israel now has become a vassal of Donald
J. Trump.
So clearly this is the individual we're
talking about.
Then in Yosei Yav-Forteen and the
prophet's analysis and portrayal of Satan,
he describes that the type that Satan will
choose to
project his influence on.
In the last days,
this person will be demon-possessed by
Satan himself.
We have two examples of this previously,
and men of considerable infamy,
one being Paul,
the author of the first fourteen books of
the Christian New Testament.
In his second letter to the Corinthians,
he overtly affirms that he was
demon-possessed to control his gargantuan
And Muhammad later would also claim twice
to be demon-possessed,
and he wrote entire surahs.
He didn't write, but he was illiterate,
but he proclaimed entire surahs on behalf
of Satan and the jinn, the demons.
And so these are the prototypes.
And so as we read in Isaiah, Isaiah,
we're told that this individual will be
duplicitous.
He will traffic in lies,
and we've never seen that to the extent
that we are witnessing now with Donald
Trump.
That he will be exceedingly egotistical,
again,
never to the extent witnessed previously
prior to Donald Trump.
That he will be sexually perverted, again,
way beyond what we'd normally expect in a
world leader with Donald Trump.
Then we have some attributes that we can
add to that,
that are presented in the book of Daniel.
And to that,
we're told that he is a very old
man,
long in days is the term that is
used on two different occasions,
that he has goatish comb over hair,
which would be also Donald Trump.
that ultimately he's going to be
wheelchair bound because his legs will
give out.
Probably that injury that caused him to
get the deferments so many times for the
Vietnam War.
Either that or his cankles.
And then we are told that he will
be
A man that likes to surround himself with
other world leaders and will become not
only manipulative of them as they support
his agenda,
as we've just witnessed in the Peace
Twenty Five initiative of where all of
these individuals were likely in
attendance.
but also that he will turn in Trumpian
fashion on three of them.
There is no one that devours even his
allies to the extent that Donald Trump
Dowds.
And we're reminded that this individual
will be sexually perverted and that the
person known as the Antichrist,
there is no Christ,
so he's not the Antichrist,
but this
This great betrayer of Israel,
Satan incarnate, is again,
we're told he's going to be egotistical
and disingenuous and exceedingly power
hungry and that he is going to go
after God himself,
going to pronounce that he is a God
and that he is going to renounce the
seven of Yahowah's Miqraey,
perpetrating a great
crime against the means that God has
provided to save his people.
And so this is the individual,
this is the time.
So we are absolutely in the seven months
that begins this timeline,
the last seven months leading up to it.
And there is no question that
this is precisely what is going to occur,
and that we have correctly fingered Donald
Trump as that individual.
And when you look at his mannerisms,
his actions, his words, his deeds,
they're just no question.
Every time we look at a new post,
they say, yep, there's the Antichrist,
Satan has a type,
and clearly Donald Trump is it.
So as we were doing this,
we are now concluding our review of the
ninth chapter.
It is spoken by one of the greatest,
not one of,
the single greatest man who ever lived.
It is being presented by Gabriel,
who was introduced as a man.
He is not an angel,
much less an archangel.
He is presenting this as God's most
capable and courageous man.
The Gabor, El,
which would make him David.
So he went on to say, therefore, no,
be aware of yada.
Be cognizant of and recognize that the
gain in the insights to understand,
realizing that the best option is for you
to be prudent after learning,
being circumspect,
such that you know that from the going
forth of the word to restore the
rebuilding of Jerusalem until the
restoring testimony of the eternal witness
of the son of the sovereign,
who is conspicuously making this known and
who is providing the leadership and
counsel, and again,
of the one who has officially obtained the
status of being properly appointed and who
has, excuse me, expanded upon,
expounded upon and announced,
even proclaimed,
the message of the Mashiach,
of the anointed Messiah,
that there are seven sevens and thus seven
promises and fulfilled vows.
Therefore, in sixty-two weeks,
she will be restored and rebuilt to
establish and fortify the way to grow and
to expand, rakob,
opening the way by expanding where people
can congregate from rakab to grow larger,
by being diligent and decisive,
by being sharper, by being determined,
increasingly judgmental,
in a time of oppression,
a period of astonishing subjugation,
restrictions, constraints,
and persecution.
Daniel nine, twenty-five.
And after the sixty-two weeks,
the anointed Messiah will be cut off and
separated to create the covenant,
being banished, but not for himself.
That's nine, twenty-six in part.
let's look at some of these words and
then we'll move forward and the text and
begin to analyze it so therefore yada yana
is the name of Dowd's herald it's a
verb in hebrew it means to know to
be aware of to be cognizant of to
process the information required to
understand but it is also the
name diploma of the fellow that wrote
means to know Yahowah and it is used
throughout the toron prophets to
acknowledge this individual and so when it
begins with a yada you know that dote
is trying to direct our attention to the
person who will at long last present this
all accurately uh to you
And so after no,
he is saying that you're gonna have to
be Shakal if you're going to follow along.
That means you're going to have to be
able to process the insights necessary to
understand.
And this will be the first time for
almost all of you that that is even
possible because it is being presented now
in a way that you can be prudent
and prosper based upon what is being
revealed.
Then it says,
from the going forth of the word,
mozadabar,
the stage being set to begin the process
in accord with the message.
To return and restore, shub.
Shub is the key term as it relates
to all things related to Yahowah and the
chosen people.
God made it quite clear throughout the
Torah and Prophets,
but particularly in the book of Hosea,
that he was leaving Israel.
There is no godly interference or
involvement at this time with Israel.
Well, you can tell that.
Look at the Haredim book.
marching in the streets of Jerusalem as a
massive mob of parasites.
And on the other side,
you have the Marxists who are tearing
Israel apart at the other side of the
spectrum.
It's a house divided that there isn't one
in a million.
the Israelites that actually knows Yahowah
at this time.
And Yahowah said,
you've been religious so long,
you're so revolting in your religiosity
that I'm just leaving you.
Here's your letter of divorce and I'm not
returning to you until you return to me.
As I like to say,
a shub for shub or no shub for
you, this was shub.
So to return and restore,
Rebuilding Jerusalem.
Jerusalem means the source of teaching and
guidance on reconciliation.
Until the restoring testimony and the
eternal witness, Ad.
Ad speaks of those last two individuals of
Viada and of Elia.
who will strive to awaken this final
remnant of Yisrael,
calling them back home.
It means to restore, to provide testimony,
for that testimony to be everlasting and
to act in the role of a witness.
Then the next word is used twice in
this same statement.
It is obviously used in a very positive
sense,
an association with the Messiah in its
first occasion,
and then very negatively in the second.
It's as if the two mentions of neged
are literally being opposed to one
another.
With the initial neged representing God,
the Mashiach, David,
who is making this statement,
and the second Negev representing ha Satan
that is trying to undo all that God
wants to accomplish in these last days.
So this neged is being referred to as
the son of the sovereign.
So he is an eternal witness on behalf
of.
So he is not the son of the
sovereign.
The son of the sovereign would be the
firstborn son of Yahowah, who is the bakor.
And Yahowah was quite clear,
his firstborn son
So this person is providing restoring
testimony and an eternal witness on behalf
of the son of the sovereign.
And he is making him conspicuously known
and is providing leadership and counsel in
this regard.
And in this regard,
Yada, as the odd restoring witness,
is the first person in all of human
history to deduce correctly that Dowd
David,
the person speaking here is Gabriel,
is the son of God.
He is the Messiah.
He is the chosen one.
He is the exemplar
of the covenant.
He is the most set apart.
He is our Yasha, Savior.
He is our returning king.
No one previously had been able to deduce
all of these conclusions.
And so, Naged here,
speaking of the one who as a restoring
witness will address
the nature of the son of the sovereign,
making him conspicuously known as the
Mashiach, the anointed Messiah,
we are dealing with that same individual,
Yada, that began this testimony.
There's only one person ever who has been
able to do these things.
And so, Dowd is actually speaking of him,
because until you recognize who he is,
relative to who Dowd is,
then you're really not in a position to
capitalize upon what Dowd has done because
he's the only person that has actually
understood it and explained it in a way
that you can capitalize upon it.
Now we get down to the math of
it.
There are seven sevens and thus seven
promises and fulfilled vows.
Shabuwahim, which is the plural of Shabuwah,
which is the next harvest.
Shiba'ah,
contractual oaths fulfilled in harmony
with the promise of Shabuwah over seven
periods of seven weeks.
Yahowah's math always works out the same.
Six plus one equals seven.
Man, who was conceived on the sixth day,
a carbon-based life form with the atomic
number of six, plus God who is one,
Yahowah is one,
equals God's idea of perfection of us
coming together.
It is why it is six.
Miqraey Mikrei, Pesach, Matsah, Bekodim,
Shabuwah, Taruwah, and Kipurym,
lead to the seventh, which is Sukkah,
where we return to the conditions
experienced in Eden and camp out together
with God in great joy.
Therefore, in sixty-two weeks,
so we have seven sevens plus seven
promises,
Therefore, in sixty-two weeks,
she will be restored and rebuilt to
establish and fortify.
We will go through the math of that
in a moment.
The way to grow and expand, rakab,
this is not big, wide streets.
This is the whole purpose of what Dowd
has accomplished by fulfilling Pesach,
Matsah, and Bakudam.
He adds to our days,
opening the doorway to life on Pesach.
He...
carries our guilt away on Matsah so that
we can enter God's home and be seen
as perfect in God's eyes so that on
B'kutim we can be enriched and empowered
and abled so that we grow and expand,
becoming more than we would otherwise be.
B'kutim is a tenfold gift.
expansion in our capabilities.
And actually Shabuwah,
which is mentioned here,
is a double dose of another tenfold.
So it's a magnitude of ten plus twice
a magnitude of ten in this process.
And all of this is on behalf of
those who are diligent and decisive.
In a time
of oppression and a time of anguishing
subjugation.
And then after the sixty-two weeks,
the anointed Mashiach, the Messiah,
which is what Yahowah refers to Dowd.
Dowd is the only person that Yahowah refers
to three times to say that he is
my Messiah.
He is the one I want anointed as
the Messiah.
And he's always mentioned by name.
And he is going to be Karath,
which is from Karath,
means to be cut off and separated to
create a covenant.
and therefore will be banished at that
moment, but not for himself, Daniel, nine,
twenty-six in part.
So Gabriel,
God's most capable and confident,
courageous and combative man,
preference this prophecy with Yada and
Shekal.
That is to say,
by prudently processing this information,
we will gain the insights needed to
understand.
Clearly,
this is a thinking man's prophecy.
Now, when...
He is speaking, as is the case,
of course, with Elia,
who was another thinking man's prophet.
Yashaya is a wonderful example,
particularly with his robust vocabulary.
We have to engage our brains if we're
going to keep pace with them.
So when he repeatedly indicates this to,
if we want to figure this out,
of course,
we're going to need to be discerning.
We have to learn by processing the
information, which Gabrielle,
Dowd is providing in an intelligent
manner.
And experience dictates that we follow his
advice if we want to benefit from any
of this, because heretofore,
it has never been understood or properly
explained.
So in other words,
we should consider how to process the
pieces of this puzzle that have been
provided and how they fit together,
as opposed to say, you know,
doing what Christians have done,
to pluck the Mashiach reference out of
context
to promote an agenda that is contrary to
everything else that has been said in this
revelation.
To be on the same page with the
Messiah,
we should linger on this page with him.
Now,
he is explaining that there will be a
public decree issued regarding the
liberation of Yahuwdym Jews from Babel,
which is the place where truth and lies
are commingled to confuse.
It means with the Lord,
which is therefore in association with
Satan.
And it is the basis of the word
that Christians use to describe their
Bible.
Babel and Bible are written the same way.
Therefore,
it is worth considering the similarity
between this and the decree to leave
Mitzrayim,
the crucibles of religious and political
oppression,
during Pesach to begin the Yatze Exodus.
And actually, they left during Matsah.
Pesach was the doorway to life,
and then Matsah was the opportunity to
walk out that door.
This is because Yahowah introduced Pesach,
Matsah, and Bikuwrym,
and even then later Shabuwah,
to physically liberate and educate the
children of Yisrael from religious and
political oppression.
The process would continue with Yahowah
explaining the Mikra to Moshe within the
Torah guidance that he revealed,
which was likely received,
at least the first installment,
on Shabuwah.
Now,
this ultimately led to God's people
entering the promised land,
albeit forty years thereafter.
The proclamation Dowd is currently
addressing is similar.
This time,
Yahuwdym will be liberated from religious
and political subjugation in Babel,
the birthplace of the beast,
this commingling of religion and politics,
which would evolve from
Babylon to Persia to Greece through
imperial Rome to the Roman Catholic
Church.
Not only would they be physically freed,
Yahuwdym would be able to rebuild
Jerusalem,
the source of guidance on reconciliation,
which of course is the city of Dowd.
Now,
after the passage of the specified time,
Dowd's nephesh soul would return to his
city,
all to serve his people by fulfilling
Pesach and Matsah leading to Bokoram.
Then the promise of enrichment and
empowerment was honored as a result.
In so doing,
the nephesh souls of covenant members
could be allowed to come home during
Shabuwah, which is the upcoming harvest,
to become exempt from the tyranny of
politics and religion that are currently
and have been for a very long time
plaguing the planet.
So nearly forty Yowbel,
there's that number again,
thereafter we would be using Shabuwah and
Taruwah to call the covenant family out of
religion and politics back to Yahowah,
back to the Promised Land,
to their Messiah and to God.
This will culminate with the grand reunion
taking place upon Dowd's return on
Kipurym,
which leads to Sukkah camping out with our
father and his family forevermore.
So in this way,
with the proclamation to leave Babylon and
restore Jerusalem,
the source of guidance on reconciliations,
one event foreshadows the next,
becoming a harbinger of what follows.
each step liberating us from religious
influence and from political control so
that we can come home and be family.
Now,
in conjunction with the redemption of his
people, the Neged,
the son of the sovereign,
by Neged publicly revealing what would
occur, explaining how it would transpire,
and then demonstrating the character and
courage to bring this to fruition,
is the one who is providing leadership and
counsel regarding HaMashiach, the Messiah.
He is fulfilling his vows to our Heavenly
Father over the course of explaining the
seven Miqraey.
Now, while
The Messiah Dowd is the son of the
sovereign in the sense of Yahowah.
It is also true that Yada is
representative of the sovereign.
He is the lesser light reflecting the
greater light's luminosity.
He is the king's herald.
And because it is King Dowd,
this is conspicuously making
and he is conspicuously making the
identity of our Messiah known,
we go right back to Yahowah.
He is tasked with the responsibility of
doing what no one has previously done,
explaining all of this,
including God's role as the Messiah,
including God's role in this particular
prophecy,
including the fact that it is God that
is delivering the prophecy,
none of which anybody knew previously,
explains why this neged is named in the
midst of it,
so that what I'm sharing can be widely
known.
Now,
recognizing that Dowd's gruesome and
heroic portrayal of his soul's fulfillment
of pisak Matsah
Pesach, Matsah,
and Bikuwrym in twenty thirty three C.E.
as he depicted and described it a thousand
years in advance in the twenty second
Mizmowr replete with explaining how he
would endure crucifixion and how
crucifixion kills centuries before
crucifixion was even existed.
Then we are drawn to this proclamation
with a very serious mindset.
It's describing one of the most cathartic
things ever endured.
So then after sixty two weeks,
the anointed Messiah will be cut off and
separated, but not for himself.
It's what he said of himself.
This self-portrait is awe-inspiring.
It's courageous.
It's compassionate.
It's hard to properly convey the enormity
of what he is saying here.
Of course,
we're overwhelmed by what he had
volunteered to endure,
to endure crucifixion and then have his
soul go into hell to liberate us from
our sin and our guilt.
It's amazing what he accomplished.
or that he had the fervor to do
so.
We're also horrified by what the religious
have done to cheat our Messiah and us
out of the magnitude of this gift.
Now, I'm not immune to criticism either.
And over the past twenty-four years,
I've struggled with this passage,
Daniel twenty-five and twenty-six,
more than probably anything in the Tanakh.
And now I know that it is only
from the perspective of Dowd
revealing what he would achieve that these
words ring true.
And yet,
as the first and only one to ascertain
this profoundly important realization
regarding Dowd,
what it says is that the very passage
that's used to create the illusion of
Jesus Christ actually destroys it and
tells us that it's Dowd David who was
the one crucified,
fulfilling Passover in thirty three C.E.
Heretofore, that's been unknown.
And yet is this most profoundly important
realization from the Torah on Nabium that
has ever been made.
The only prophetic statements which rival
this in their challenge to translate,
I would suspect,
are Second Samuel seven and Yasha'yah nine,
both of which we have considered and we
will reconsider many more times throughout
this blog.
It was the first of these reading Yahowah's
response to Dowd wanting to build a home
for him that we finally were able to
resolve the identity of the son and the
king, both the Dowd.
And all that was required for it to
be consistent with the whole of God's
story was to understand the challenge and
audience who was being addressed.
From God speaking to Dowd through Nathan
to God speaking of him to us and
then back to speaking directly to his son.
The identity of the son in Yashaya nine
also lays in the recognition that there's
only one name that was given to identify
him.
Just as there is only one person to
whom all of these accolades are
applicable, Dowd,
which has been corrupted to David.
So in the preamble to this prophecy,
Gabriel,
God's most capable and courageous man,
listed many things which would be resolved
as a result of what he would accomplish,
some of which were achieved during Chag
Matsah,
while most are going to be fulfilled on
Taruwah prior to those Yom Kipurym return.
They are listed together because they will
be accomplished
on behalf of and through the same Messiah.
And speaking of ha Mashiach, if not Dowd,
how would a new one have been anointed
such that we could have learned of him?
Dowd had clearly stated that this would
bring an end to prophecy.
There would be no one for Yahowah to
work with or to speak through at a
later time.
And since we know the timing of the
decree to rebuild Jerusalem,
and we have done the math,
we know that the Messiah's fulfillment of
Chag Matsah occurred in the Yowbel year of
four thousand YAH,
which is thirty-three CE,
in absolute harmony with the Torah's
instructions.
And since ha Mashiach's Bashar body was
karot, cut down, and died on Passover,
and then was karot separated on unyeasted
bread, a Shabbat,
with the firstborn released and returned
to the father on the invitation of
firstborn children,
the individual receiving the Torah's
promises could have been none other than
And it could not have been the founder
of a Torah adverse religion as in Jesus
Christ.
That would have been stunningly absurd
when you consider all of these
connections.
So Dowd knew that something special was
going to occur in his city, Jerusalem,
the source of guidance regarding
reconciliation in seven plus sixty-two
years.
weeks of years, I should say,
from the pronouncement to return.
Not only because he was a prophet,
but also because, well,
he would play the starring role during it.
Now, we have been given, of course,
the starting point.
One we'll track down in a moment.
Pertaining to the announcement to return
and restore Jerusalem by the man who built
Jerusalem,
Jerusalem into the city of David,
three thousand years ago.
He was the most prolific source of
restoring testimony found anywhere in
Yahowah's eternal witness.
Moreover,
Dowd is the most conspicuous of Israel's
leaders and the most profuse of
counselors.
He is also the preeminent Mashiach,
having been anointed three times on
Yahowah's instruction,
something that never happened again.
So once again, the timing,
if we are to read it as such,
is predicated upon Shibu'am, Shiba'ah,
seven promises and contractual vows
fulfilled in harmony with Shibu'a over
seven periods of seven weeks.
While Dowd will soon return to fulfill
Kipurym and then serve as the king of
Sukkah, the son of God embodies Bukurim,
and it is firstborn children which makes
Shabuwah possible.
He is Yahowah's Bukur, his firstborn,
the foremost beneficiary of Shabuwah,
the promise of seven.
Yahowah has overtly empowered, enriched,
enlightened,
and enabled Dowd to accomplish these great
things.
Now, one's home,
the result would have nothing to do,
of course,
with what is presented in religious
translations.
God didn't care about the buildings.
There were no wide plazas.
There were no broad avenues.
The defensive walls or moats,
as they describe, did not happen,
as these translations claim.
So when we turn,
which we do quite often,
to the actionable root of the words that
Dowd selected,
we discover what was actually going to be
shub, restored, and bana, established.
And that was rekob,
the way to grow and to expand by
charutz, being diligent and decisive.
What is being foretold is the fulfillment
of the first three mikrei.
In year four thousand, yeah,
because they provide the benefits of the
covenant, the means to grow and expand,
to become more capable and to be fully
empowered by God.
And this applies to those who are diligent
and decisive regarding the terms of
acceptance.
We also learn that this will occur in
a troubling time of oppression and
anguishing subjugation,
restrictions and constraints.
Dowd is speaking of Yahuwdym being
persecuted and harassed by Imperial Rome
and then pushed into a corner and confined
by her church.
This isn't of rabbis acting badly.
They would be less influential at this
time than any other.
The whole Christian legend that the Jews
had schemed to crucify their man, God,
and then crucified him is just absurd.
And the prophecy Doesn't speak of that.
Now,
since I'm anxious to reprise the math and
verify the result,
let's interrupt the conclusion of this
prophecy to do the arithmetic.
We'll do it now.
We'll reconstruct with Gabriel thereafter,
reconnect, I should say, with him,
with Dowd thereafter,
and consider all that he has to share
because there's a lot more to this.
Well, after all,
Dowd knew what was going to happen to
himself and to his people,
and he warned us about it.
The least we can do is to listen
and contemplate all he had to say.
But now it's time to fill in some
of the gaps.
At first,
among these gaps to be filled in is
to return to the math itself.
In this regard,
it is helpful to know that a prophetic
year isn't equivalent to a solar year.
Solar years really didn't exist back in
the day.
Entirely different calendars,
and we've got to put ourselves in that
mindset.
And so to ascertain the number of days
in sixty-two weeks of years,
we should adjust our measurements to Yah's
prophetic process.
This consists of twelve months of thirty
days based upon a sensible rounding up to
the nearest full integer of the twenty
nine point five days of a lunar cycle.
Not the three hundred and sixty five point
two four two,
which are now blazoned into
what became the Roman method and then that
of Roman Catholicism and the current
calendar with its leap day every four
years.
This duration of time also differed from
the Babylonian approach because they
observed a luni solar year,
which added an inner calorie month every
five to six years to prevent the shifting
of seasons.
They were aware of the solar year as
three hundred and sixty five and a quarter
days long.
But the lunar calendar remained the only
practical timekeeping device before mass
communication and mechanics.
A lunisolar year gave everyone a reliable
means to set their clocks,
no matter where they were,
anywhere around the known world.
Every renewed moon marked the start of a
new month.
The Israelites, based upon history,
Yahowah's Torah instruction used a
different method,
although it had a very similar result.
The intercalary month was added based upon
barley,
the first grain to rise in the spring.
Fruit harvested in the suburbs of
Jerusalem was tested as they approached
the nearest renewed moon to what was the
vernal equinox.
If the grain was still green and growing,
still laden with water,
it would dance in a hot pan placed
above an open fire.
In that case,
the next renewing moon would designate the
beginning of a new year.
However,
as effective as this actually turns out to
be year to year,
it is not a predictive approach since it
only pertains to the beginning of the
current year.
Therefore,
since this was not predictive of future
years or a great expanse of years and
thus not suitable for prophecy,
it would lead to confusion over centuries
of time.
The barley method Dowds not offer a means
to distinguish one year from the next in
advance of the current situation.
And that is what makes the length of
a prophetic year,
three hundred and sixty days,
the one which was established in
Bare’syth, Genesis,
where events related to the flood are
given in both days and years.
Now, these things know the date
of the word coming forth to restore and
build Jerusalem is actually presented in
Nehemiah, where we read,
And it came to pass in the month
of Nisan, that would be Abib.
That's the Babylonian version of the word,
but it is Abib and Nisan occur at
the same time.
In the twentieth year of Artaxerxes,
when I, that would be Nehemiah,
said to the king,
if it pleases the king,
and if your servant has found favor in
your sight,
I ask that you send me to Yahuwdah,
to the city of my father's tombs,
where I might rebuild it.
So it pleased the king to send me.
Nehemiah two one through six.
Now, in ascertaining this date,
it's helpful to know that archaeologists
have discovered and translated thousands
of cuneiform tablets from the ruins of
Babylon.
By doing so,
we have come to learn that Artaxerxes was
not able, actually,
to assume the throne until four sixty four
BCE.
and that would make the twentieth year of
his reign,
and thus the starting date of Gabriel's,
Dowd's prophecy, and Daniel,
the first of Abib, Nisan,
four forty-four BCE.
Therefore, from the Abib one,
four forty-four BCE date,
we must add seven weeks of years,
forty-nine prophetic years,
until
Jerusalem would be rebuilt.
And then there would be another sixty-two
weeks,
four hundred and thirty-four prophetic
years,
for a total of four hundred and
eighty-three prophetic years,
until the one miscast by the Romans,
but yet authorized by God,
would fulfill Pesach.
Now to calculate his arrival,
We should multiply four hundred and eighty
three,
which is forty nine plus four hundred and
thirty four years by the three hundred and
sixty days in the Torah's prophetic year.
This equals you do the math one hundred
and seventy three thousand eight hundred
and eighty years.
days there'll be a test on this at
the end of this program so you might
want to write down your notes so one
hundred and seventy three thousand eight
hundred and eighty days rich is over there
squirming says oh he's not gonna ask me
a question is he I'm hiding behind this
wall of uh of monitors now you can't
see me I'm not here
okay so and to make that a little
simpler one hundred seventy three thousand
eight hundred and eighty days is four
hundred and seventy six solar years plus
an additional twenty one days when we
divide that by three hundred and sixty
five point two five which gives us the
length of a solar year which we should
then add to our starting date which is
nissan one and four forty four bce
Twenty years after Artaxerxes secured the
throne.
Now, it bears repeating.
The solar lunar calendar based upon or
used, I should say,
really at the time of the Hebrews and
Babylonians featured a three hundred and
sixty four day year with an addition of
a twenty nine point five days for an
additional lunar month.
Seven out of nineteen years is the
Babylonian method.
There would be no Julian calendar at the
time,
and the concept of a leap day to
properly adjust the solar lunar calendar
wouldn't be conceived until halfway
through that period.
God's going to communicate through Dowd
timing.
He can't use a calendar that has not
yet been invented and wouldn't be invented
for a very long time.
So that is to say that Dowd's intent
with the prophecy was to get the
thoughtful reader to realize that when he
adds four hundred and seventy six years
from Nisan in four forty four BCE.
Drumroll, please.
We arrive in Abib.
in thirty-three CE,
which is the Yowbel year of four thousand
YAH.
Mission accomplished.
But there's more.
What this means,
at least when transferred from the Julian
calendar,
is that his fulfillment of Chag Matsah was
foretold to transpire in April
thirty-three CE.
Get this,
you have to recognize that there was no
year zero in the Julian or the Gregorian
calendar.
They just simply went from one BCE to
one CE without the year zero.
So rather than that being a two year
span,
On the calendars that we are now using,
there is a zero year span between the,
well,
one year span versus a two year span
between them because there's no year zero.
So you need to add a recognition that
there's a missing year there.
when going from BCE to CE.
Now,
affirming that we're in the right place
and time,
there is no question that's thirty three
CE is the ideal outcome.
And we know this because we can go
back using the Torah's genealogy,
something that
Maimonides didn't do.
Obviously,
he didn't like the Torah very much.
He preferred his Mishnah Torah,
his own version of it.
But in the Torah, we're given dates.
And if we use those dates,
we know that there were
Forty Yowbel,
Yowbel year is a every seven times seven
plus one,
fifty year period where all debts are
forgiven,
where all slaves are freed and people
return to the land,
which is symbolic of everything Yahowah was
trying to accomplish here.
There were forty Yowbel, forty of these,
two thousand years between the time that
Adam and Chawah were booted out of the
garden to the time that Abraham and Esau
climbed Mount Moriah to establish the
narrative that would allow us back in,
which was in nineteen sixty eight B.C.E.
That would be year two thousand YAH.
And then it was exactly Forty Yowbel from
nineteen sixty eight B.C.E.,
which is two thousand years until Dowd
actually fulfilled the promise that was
explained in nineteen sixty eight with
Abraham and Yitschaq serving as the dress
rehearsal in the exact same place exactly
two thousand years later for Dowd on Mount
Moriah to fulfill Pesach, Matsah,
and Bikuwrym.
And two thousand years from nine sixty
eight BCE is thirty three CE.
So it is the ideal outcome.
It takes us right to the year that
it would have to be to fit God's
timing.
So we don't have to address,
we don't have to have the access,
if you will,
to the barley fields that year.
we can deduce the same result because we
can use the vernal equinox.
So we're going to really drill down on
this because it's truly amazing.
Dowd didn't get it right to the year,
not to the month,
but to the exact day,
nearly five hundred years in advance.
The vernal equinox and thirty three CE
year four thousand year
was on a March,
that was a Friday in .
The nearest emerging lunar crescent to it
was conveniently on the same day, March,
and that is of great significance.
So not only was the vernal equinox on
March,
And this year we don't have to guess
which new moon it was because the first
crescent of the moon was also on March,
and the day of the week is a
Friday.
You don't find that combination of events,
a hundred years, either direction,
of that particular year.
And all of those things must be exactly
that way for Dowd's depiction to pass
muster.
It's only one year.
It could have been the very year that
he pointed to.
And that one year, everything lines up.
Now,
this means that the Passover meal would
have been celebrated on a Thursday
evening,
the second of April in thirty three C.E.
You still taking your notes there, Rich?
We test test on all of this,
you know, at the end.
It's open book.
I'm good.
OK.
I wish it was overbooked.
Okay,
so the Passover meal would have been
celebrated on a Thursday,
April second in thirty three C.E.
During the evening beginning at sunset.
Dowd's body would then have been crucified
as he foretold on Friday, April third.
Friday, April third.
Then just prior to sunset,
the beginning of the natural and symbolic
Shabbat.
of Matsah,
his Bashar would be removed and
incinerated that night.
He would have been cut off from the
living during Matsah,
entering Sheowl  to carry away our guilt,
commencing on a Friday evening and running
through Saturday, April fourth at sundown.
Dowd's nephesh was laden with our guilt
and taken to this black hole to deposit
it there,
never to be seen again at this very
moment.
This not only means that firstborn
children was observed on the first day of
the new week,
but also that Chag Matsah would continue
through Friday, April ninth,
because Chag Matsah is a seven day
celebration.
which is, of course, drumroll please.
Exactly.
Four hundred and seventy-six years and
twenty-one days.
From Abib, one, four forty-four BCE.
Extraordinary, isn't it?
So,
Not only was Gabriel Dowd,
revealing that his fulfillment of Chag
Matsah would occur beginning Thursday,
April second, with the Passover meal,
and that he would serve as the lamb
on Friday, April third,
removing our guilt on the Shabbat of April
fourth in thirty-three CE,
he reminded all who would do the math
that Chag Matsah is a seven-day
celebration of our redemption.
It is also profoundly important to note
that the only way for the forecasted year
to be correct is for there to be
an observable sliver of emerging light on
the moon's surface to reflect this
greatness nearest
to the vernal equinox,
and for that to occur on a Friday,
which it Dowds in thirty-three CE.
But to be precise,
it must also be located with the equinox,
which not only occurs in thirty-three CE,
but Dowds not happen again for at least
a hundred years.
Neither occurred in thirty-three,
excuse me, in thirty-four, thirty-five,
thirty-six, thirty-seven,
or thirty-eight CE,
with only half of the equation met in
thirty-nine.
In fact, going forward in time,
there simply isn't another match in which
the crescent of a new moon
is viewable on the vernal equinox through
a hundred CE.
And going back in time,
there is a very weak partial match with
the observable new moon on Friday in the
twenty and twenty-six CE,
but it's on the eighth and thus nowhere
close to the equinox.
We have to go all the way back
to XIV CE for another partial match with
the visible crescent coterminus with the
equinox, but it's on a Tuesday.
And that Doesn't work for the timing of
Pesach, Matsah, and Bikuwrym,
according on a Thursday evening,
Friday during the day,
all through the Shabbat of Saturday,
and then concluding on the first day of
the week, a Sunday,
using today's terminology versus just the
numbers.
in six ce we find a crescent on
friday and a uh it's only a day
from the vernal equinox but not ideal and
still seventeen years shy of the result
that don't forecast therefore this gives
us some sense of how unique thirty three
c e was in this regard it's the
perfect fit in every way
in years, days,
correlation to the equinox,
at the proper day of the week for
all of what Dowd revealed to be a
perfect fit.
What has been lost on so many is
how exquisitely the details of the
prophecy match the fulfillment.
Dowd's entry into Jerusalem coincided with
the day the Paschal Lamb would have been
brought into the household on the tenth
day of Abib.
And then just as they had in Hezekiah's
time,
large crowds would have been gathered in
Jerusalem,
the source of guidance on reconciliation.
This conveniently occurred on a Sunday,
the twenty ninth of March.
in thirty-three CE,
corroborating not only the Palm Sunday
recollections of what Dowd did when it was
transferred in fifty-two CE to the
mythical Jesus,
but also affirming that the Passover
supper was observed on a Thursday,
and that Good Friday is when the
crucifixion transpired.
I mean,
When Paul made up the myth of Jesus,
he didn't make it up out of nothingness.
What he did is he plagiarized.
He performed identity theft.
He created a counterfeit of what God had
actually done.
And there was a recollection of what he
did.
He just simply placed his lies on top
of the truth.
Of course,
then it was on a Sunday morning that
the Messiah returned to his father.
Dowd's prophecy and his subsequent
sacrifice corresponded perfectly to the
designated time of Passover in year four
thousand year, Thursday and Friday,
April second and third in thirty three CE.
It was just before sunset,
beginning the fourteenth day of Abib,
that all of this transpired with mission
accomplished on the ninth of April.
at the completion of Chag Matsah,
just as Dowd had foretold.
His Bashar and Nefesh body and soul served
as promised.
The prophecy of the first mikrei,
invitations to be called out and meet of
Pesach, Passover, Matsah, unyeasted bread,
and Bikuwrym, firstborn children,
were honored literally right down to the
minute detail.
There would have been no mistaking what
had been done,
at least for those who darash.
consistently seek to know Yahowah,
who read the Torah and found the way
to father and son,
who pondered the implications of the
relationship he intended by diligently
studying the prophets,
showing our appreciation for what father
and son have achieved.
We should answer God's invitations and we
should observe Chag Matsah,
Keeping this appointment with Yahowah,
the fourteenth through twenty-first days
of Abib are not difficult to establish.
Passover is marked by the first full moon
closest to the spring equinox.
We should observe Chag Matsah,
the celebration of un-yeasted bread by
seeking to understand the intent of
Yahowah's instructions,
doing as much of what the Torah teaches
as possible as they serve as symbols to
enlighten our minds.
This Chag feast should be celebrated with
Yisrael and the covenant family in mind.
The menu is roasted lamb and un-yeasted
bread with olive oil and bitter herbs
consistent with that of the first
celebrants.
While we are reminiscing over the promise
of life eternal,
we should focus on what occurred during
the first Passover.
when lives were extended.
Matsah,
when God's people left the realm of
religious and political corruption.
Ana Bikuwrym,
when they burst out of the sea as
newborn children.
Yahowah presents his story in Shemowth,
names, Exodus, twelve and thirteen.
I would also encourage covenant members to
Chara, to read the prophecies in Yasha'yah,
Isaiah fifty-three.
and Mizmowr Psalms,
twenty-two and eighty-eight,
all of which are translated for your
benefit within the volumes of Yada Yawa
and free at yadaya.com.
They speak, for example, here's one,
all free at yadayah.com.
They speak vividly of father and son's
intent and the provisions for their
people.
Yisrael and for Yahowah's Beryth family.
Now,
before we leave this profoundly important
revelation from Gabriel,
note regarding when he fulfilled Chag
Matsah in year four thousand Yah,
which began on Thursday, Friday,
April second and third in thirty three
C.E.
with the mission accomplished by the ninth
of April.
four hundred and seventy-six years and
twenty-one days from the vernal equinox in
four forty-four BCE.
There's another aspect of this which is
even more important for us to acknowledge.
With Dowd having affirmed the fulfillment
of the spring Miqraeyim in thirty-three CE,
we can be absolutely certain that the fall
Mikre
will be fulfilled in twenty thirty three
year six thousand yah because it is forty
yo bell separated that is how i know
i know the exact date for Taruwah for
caporum and for Sukah for the sacrifice of
the red heifer this Adamah para
that purges the remaining remnant of
Yisrael and that final gleaning on Taruwah,
the twenty-third and twenty-fourth of
September of twenty-thirty-three,
a Shabbat.
And of Dowd's return with Yahowah on the
Day of Reconciliation, Yom Kipurym,
October second,
twenty-thirty-three at sunset,
six twenty-two pm.
And as the entire world is transformed to
the conditions experienced in Eden and all
religious and political individuals are
expunged from the earth and the earth is
transformed back into the conditions that
existed in Eden on the seventh of October
in twenty thirty three we will celebrate
chog Sukah and we will enter a thousand year
celebration of life camping out with our
father here on earth therefore
We now can determine the days upon which
Taruwah, Kipurym,
and Sukkah will be fulfilled with absolute
certainty, and that's a big deal, huge.
It's almost as important as realizing that
Dowd,
who as the Messiah and the Son of
God was crucified in Jerusalem on Friday,
April third, thirty-three CE,
exactly as he foretold,
And therefore there is no room for an
interloping Jesus and God's story.
It's a lie.
So that was crucified in the second or
third of three lives.
He is the Messiah.
He is the son of God.
Now, if this was not enough,
realize that this is the only place in
the prophets
where there is a reference to a Messiah
who will come to be cut off,
but not for himself.
And yet,
rather than justifying Christianity,
it annuls it.
Collectively,
there are more vital revelations for our
time.
There just are none more important than
this.
Proof that Jesus never existed,
all while affirming the doubt.
Who fulfilled Chag Matsah in thirty-three
CE, year four thousand, yeah.
was the Messiah, Son of God and Savior.
What a marvelous place for us to stop
this program.
We're going to return in our next program
where we address the rest of his prophecy
because it is absolutely riveting as well.
Thank you for listening.